# SAM Serverless Samples: rest-dynamodb

This project contains source code and supporting files for a serverless application that you can deploy with the AWS Serverless Application Model (AWS SAM) command line interface (CLI). It includes the following files and folders:

- `app` - The SAM application.
- `app\src` - Code for the application's Lambda function.
- `app\events` - Invocation events that you can use to invoke the function.
- `app\src\__tests__` - Unit tests for the application code.
- `template.yaml` - A template that defines the application's AWS resources.

The application uses several AWS resources, including Lambda functions, an API Gateway API, and Amazon DynamoDB tables. These resources are defined in the `template.yaml` file in this project. You can update the template to add AWS resources through the same deployment process that updates your application code.

## Prerequisites

The following are required to run this sample.

- AWS Account
- SAM CLI
- NVM with Node 16.x (lts/gallium)

## Build

Run the following command in the sample base directory:

```bash
sam build
```

## Deploy to AWS

Run the following command in the sample base directory:

```bash
sam deploy --guided # to use the default AWS profile

## OR ##

sam deploy --guided --profile [profileName] # to specify the AWS profile
```

The command will package and deploy your application to AWS, with a series of prompts:

- **Stack Name**: The name of the stack to deploy to CloudFormation. This should be unique to your account and region, and a good starting point would be something matching your project name.
- **AWS Region**: The AWS region you want to deploy your app to.
- **Confirm changes before deploy**: If set to yes, any change sets will be shown to you before execution for manual review. If set to no, the AWS SAM CLI will automatically deploy application changes.
- **Allow SAM CLI IAM role creation**: Many AWS SAM templates, including this example, create AWS IAM roles required for the AWS Lambda function(s) included to access AWS services. By default, these are scoped down to minimum required permissions. To deploy an AWS CloudFormation stack which creates or modifies IAM roles, the `CAPABILITY_IAM` value for `capabilities` must be provided. If permission isn't provided through this prompt, to deploy this example you must explicitly pass `--capabilities CAPABILITY_IAM` to the `sam deploy` command.
- **Save arguments to samconfig.toml**: If set to yes, your choices will be saved to a configuration file inside the project, so that in the future you can just re-run `sam deploy` without parameters to deploy changes to your application.

The API Gateway endpoint API will be displayed in the outputs when the deployment is complete.

## Run

You can find your API Gateway Endpoint URL in the output values displayed after deployment.

To run the you may use an API client like Postman or a command line tool such as `curl`.

### curl

```bash
curl [endpointUrl]

## for example ###

curl https://ulgpuwhw90.execute-api.us-east-1.amazonaws.com/Prod/
```

### Postman

Import the Postman collection from the base directory of the sample. Update the `gatewayUrl` collection variable to the endpoint URL provided in the output from the `sam deploy` command.

## Remove from AWS

Run the following command in the sample base directory:

```bash
sam delete
```

## Add a resource to your application

The application template uses AWS SAM to define application resources. AWS SAM is an extension of AWS CloudFormation with a simpler syntax for configuring common serverless application resources, such as functions, triggers, and APIs. For resources that aren't included in the [AWS SAM specification](https://github.com/awslabs/serverless-application-model/blob/master/versions/2016-10-31.md), you can use the standard [AWS CloudFormation resource types](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSCloudFormation/latest/UserGuide/aws-template-resource-type-ref.html).

## Fetch, tail, and filter Lambda function logs

To simplify troubleshooting, the AWS SAM CLI has a command called `sam logs`. `sam logs` lets you fetch logs that are generated by your Lambda function from the command line. In addition to printing the logs on the terminal, this command has several nifty features to help you quickly find the bug.

> **NOTE:** This command works for all Lambda functions, not just the ones you deploy using AWS SAM.

```bash
sam logs -n listItemsFunction --stack-name sam-samples-rest-dynamodb --tail
```

> **NOTE:** This uses the logical name of the function within the stack. This is the correct name to use when searching logs inside an AWS Lambda function within a CloudFormation stack, even if the deployed function name varies due to CloudFormation's unique resource name generation.

You can find more information and examples about filtering Lambda function logs in the [AWS SAM CLI documentation](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/serverless-application-model/latest/developerguide/serverless-sam-cli-logging.html).

## Testing

Tests are defined in the `app/src/__tests__` directory of this project. Use `npm` to install the [Jest test framework](https://jestjs.io/) and run unit tests.

```bash
npm install
npm run test
```
